# Enhancing Biomedical Relation Extraction with Transformer Models using Shortest Dependency Path Features and Triplet Information

We propose to utilize SDP features for data sample slections and effective noisy sample pruning. Further, we utilize the triplet information for model learning.

# Data Generation: 
Gen_data_CDR.py-- script to generate the Train, Dev and Test sets for CDR dataset using SDP information\\
The script in turn utilizes:
scispacy_parse_intra.py and scispacy_parse_pair.py.
scispacy_parse_intra.py-- SDP comptation for intra-sentential relations
scispacy_parsepair.py--SDP comptation for inter-sentential relations
Gen_data_random_CDR--script to generate the train, dev and test sets for CDR dataset without SDP

# Training the Model and Predictions
BioBERT model is being used. You have to download the pretrained model files for BioBert from https://github.com/dmis-lab/biobert and convert the checkpoints using the instructions in https://huggingface.co/transformers/converting_tensorflow_models.html and store them in the required path.
CDR_biorel.py: The script utilizes the data generated by Gen_data_CDR.py and and fine tune the BioBERT model uisng Train & DEV sets and make predictions on Test set.
The paths of input directory, the model path and output directory must be set properly. CHEMPROT evaluations can be done similarily by changing the # of labels  accordingly. For Chemprot (#  of labels=6). 


# Requirements
torch==1.1.0

spacy==2.2.3

tensorflow==1.12.0

Keras==2.2.4

scispacy==0.2.4

matplotlib==3.0.2

transformers==2.11.0

tqdm==4.32.2

nltk==3.4

pandas==0.24.2

numpy==1.17.0

scikit_learn==0.23.2

# Steps

First generate the samples using the scripts specified in Data Generation. Once the Train, Dev and Test sets are constructed do the steps Training the Model and Predictions to train the model and get the final test F-scores.
